# IDEAS_visualization_class_2022
Visualization of 3D axisymmetric jets produced by Supermassive Black Holes at the center of Galaxies

The first seeds that led to galaxies in our universe came from the Big Bang. The first galaxies were small in size compared to gigantic ones we observe today. Supermassive Black Holes (SMBH) reside at the center of such galaxies with masses M ~ 10^6 - 10^10 solar masses. How did the first SMBH form during the early-time galaxies, and how did they grow alongside their host is one of the unanswered questions in Astrophysics.

In my research I focus on these SMBH and how they grow by accreting gas from their galaxy. During that active phase such systems are classified as an Active Galactic Nucleus (AGN). AGN activity is tightly linked with observed relativistic magnetized outflows, which we call jets, with energies sufficient to affect the evolution of their host galaxy. 
To study this dynamical process, I use 3-dimensional general relativistic magneto-hydrodynamic simulations. When gas is accreted near the SMBH, a disk is formed through which the SMBH feeds and grows. During this, the jets are formed and propagate into the surrounding gas attempting to penetrate through it without breaking down. This process is very messy and results in assymetric jet-structures that are very hard to visualize in 2-dimensional plots. Thus, a volumetric representation of my data is not only visually appealing, but also, necessary when one tries to understand the structure and stability of jets.

On the plot on the right, I show a 3-dimensional representation of my data where the color shows the logarithm of density. The shape of the jets (purple) shows strong deviations from axisymmetry, with significant tilts and bends. The diffuse gas surrounding the jets is shown in orange, while in the center, the densest regions form the accretion disk. A dropdown  menu is placed above this plot with multiple overlay choices: streamlines of velocity, magnetic field, and a velocity vector field. At the bottom of the page, I have included animations of volume slices in the xy plane (left) and in the xz plane (right). These animations show different slices, with a slider that can select different positions for those slices, giving us the tools to easily scan different regions. The colorbars depict the logarithm of density.


The 3D visualization along with 2D animations were produced using Plotly. I decided to use Plotly for its flexibility to produce all kinds of animations. Moreover, Plotly has vast documentation and many examples in its website/gallery. 
  
